JUDY WOODRUFF: Russia
is stepping up pressure
on the United States to
regain two diplomatic
compounds seized in
New York and Maryland.
President Obama ordered them
seized in December in response
to Russian meddling in the 2016
election.
Today, Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov called it highway
robbery, and his deputy held a
high-level meeting at
the State Department.
Nick Schifrin has been
following the story, and he
joins me now in the studio.
So, Nick, why are the
Russians so interested
in these two compounds?
NICK SCHIFRIN: What officials
on both sides are talking
about is bilateral irritants.
So these are the compounds.
These are the Russian diplomats
who were expelled last year as
part of the U.S. response to
the Russian hacking, and these
are not the major issues.
These are not Syria and Ukraine.
And the idea is that the fewer
issues you talk about, the
more likely it is you make
at least a little progress.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, what are
the prospects that they can
reach any kind of agreement?
NICK SCHIFRIN: That's exactly
what the Trump administration
is trying to find, any kind
of agreement.
There are huge headwinds,
as you know, politically
in this country if you
give back those compounds.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Huge.
NICK SCHIFRIN: And
so -- huge, exactly.
But U.S. officials are
worried about retribution.
Russia says, look, if there's no
deal today in the near future,
three dozen of your diplomats
will be expelled and life
for your diplomats in
Russia will get even worse.
And we have already seen
a campaign of intimidation
against U.S. diplomats.
In Russia in June 2016, we
saw a U.S. diplomat outside
of the embassy get beaten up.
That's not something the
U.S. wants to see there.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, quickly,
where do you see this going?
NICK SCHIFRIN: It's a
chicken and egg problem.
The U.S. says, you
hacked, we responded.
If Russia were to say, no,
no, no, we didn't hack, you
kicked our guys out, you seized
our compounds for no reason,
then we retaliate, the U.S. has
to say, oh, well, this is a new
retaliation, and yet
another response.
There's no telling
where that would end.
The U.S. is trying to say, look,
the big issues, keep that aside.
Maybe we can make some progress
and at least, I don't know,
save a bad relationship from
getting worse.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Another aspect
of the U.S.-Russia relationship.
Nick Schifrin, thank you.
NICK SCHIFRIN: Thanks.